Time is a commodity. It is both finite and infinite. We only have 24 hours to use and it does not replenish until the following day. We have to protect our use of that time just as much as we protect the use of our money.

When we say yes and commit to things, we are spending some of the expectations held for that day. So when you overspend your time on those expectations, it is akin to blowing apart your spending budget. You get into debt from your expectations.

Is what you’re doing right now going to impact where you’ll be 3 — 5 years from now?

Your health matters as well, and even with all the craziness, afford yourself at least 20 minutes of some sort of activity that gives you a small workout each day.

Doing work that you don’t want to be known for, writing a case study about it, and sharing it only bring more people who want you to do that work. Further pulling you away from where you would like to go.

Learn the guiding principles before trying to learn the tools and do crazy things. That means you need to learn it so well that you start to see what’s wrong with road signs, take-out menus, and how misaligned and asymmetrical everyone’s bodies actually are by design.

Treat your self-teaching with the same level of intensity as your job. It is one and you are a fool to think that learning without applying will get you anywhere. Go out and make things.

Don’t undervalue yourself with the job boards and $5 logo sites, you’re better than that. It’s a good place to start to see that people will pay for work you do, but they are vicious there and will constantly try to devalue the time, effort, and difficulty it is to do creative work.

In pursuing anything, you’ll learn more than just that thing

Though it feels like a secret, there’s one skill that truly helps a designer outshine their peers. That skill is their ability to recognize and address the opportunity around an existing problem and how to solve for it.

Where in the process do you write the case study?
This is a trick question, you should be documenting as you go.

Automate your writing process
Writing needs to be part of your workflow. It doesn’t have to start as large articles every morning, but what would make writing easier is to start with small snippets. When a decision comes along, jot down specifically why you are changing, creating, or keeping a part of the project.

After each stage of your design process, you should put time into writing a short summary of the phase and the decisions made throughout. Questions like: “What went well during this phase?”; “What could be improved upon when going through this phase next time?”; “What major decisions have started to shape the solution?”; and “What challenges did you overcome during this phase?”; can all affect how effective your message is when presenting the case study.

Your first interaction with others is important on setting the right tone of any relationship. The same can be said for email marketing.

When every action is highlighted, nothing is highlighted. The problem is that if you give people too many things to do, they choose to do nothing instead.

All the pains and challenges one faces now are not going to be the same ones they experience 3 to 5 years down the road.

When asked, “what goes into your rate?” you must be ready with a solid answer. If you struggle with giving a concrete short pitch, your client might have uncertainty before hiring you.

“Without [a] leader first believing in himself or herself, true leadership will exist only in title.”
–Peter Barron Stark

There’s really nothing new under the sun except you. You are the outlier and I are in charge of your idea’s execution.

having an idea sitting in your mind has one big flaw: it’s untested. And being untested means it has a very small chance of succeeding if you go all out without testing it.

I take my inexperience as a designer and I turn that into my strength. I iterate by taking what I learn and apply it to the work I am currently doing. Then I bundle what I learn, write an article about it, then I send that out in a newsletter fixed around a topic of becoming more confident. I’m putting these iterations of writing out there in public and refining my skills as I go.

Not everything I touch will turn into gold and I have to be okay with that.

work backwards from the result that you want until you get down to something so small that it would be absurd not to take action.

Sometimes a poor implementation keeps a good idea from succeeding. Conversely, a great idea can succeed in spite of a poor implementation.

Every block of stone has a statue inside it and it is the task of the sculptor to discover it.
 — Michelangelo

Realistically, not every designer needs to know how to code.
What we are trying to figure out is the answer to this question: What limitations in their chosen medium should a designer learn about their design discipline?

The grind creates routine, you wake up early or stay up late, you start pounding away at the task list and achieve a lot. This is how everyone starts, by building up what they have with their own two hands.

You have to work smarter, not harder. Working smart means taking account of the things you are currently doing and measuring their effectiveness of reaching your goals.

At the end of the day, are you doing everything you can to get the work done that you need to?

Having systems in place to use during your design process is one of the best ways to combat this endless battle of time. Steps in the design process that can take a huge chunk of the clock to finish can be reduced to a fraction of the time with a good system in place.

As long as you are working on putting effort in to adopting the system in your process, you can start creating work that not only looks consistent, but more thought out and feels natural to the intended viewer.

Grids and guides are used in everything: icon design, print layouts, typography, hand lettering, web design, photography. A well defined grid system can set up anchors in your information and guide people through the ideas and concepts.

Information that is consistently laid out is easier to consume and take action upon. It’s true that just knowing what a grid is won’t make you a good designer, but those who can use a grid effectively will create astonishing designs, but they also know when it’s okay to break the grid to make something truly unique.

Every part of your design is connected. By changing even a tiny thing, you can throw off the balance of the rest of the design.

A “design system” sets everything up when you hand off your design to others who are working on the same project. By having visual guidelines in place, you are capable of keeping your design for the project intact after the hand-off.

Visuals are an important part of design, obviously. But without a system in place to filter new ideas through, your next design might just end up “off brand” and disconnected from the rest of the work.
